# Formula_1_Racing_Using_Azure_Databricks

## Project Overview:
This project aims to provide a data analysis solution for Formula-1 race results using Azure Databricks. This is an ETL pipeline to ingest Formula 1 motor racing data, transform and load it into our data warehouse for reporting and analysis purposes. The data is sourced from ergast.com, a website dedicated to Formula 1 statistics, and is stored in Azure Datalake Gen2 storage. Data transformation and analysis were performed using Azure Databricks. The entire process is orchestrated using Azure Data Factory.

## Formula1 Overview
Formula 1 (F1) is the top tier of single-seater auto racing worldwide, governed by the FIA. It features high-tech, powerful cars with hybrid engines. Every season happens once a year, each race happens over weekends (Friday to Sunday). Each race is conducted in individual circuits. 10 Teams/Constructors will participate. Two Drivers will be assigned in a team. The season includes 20-23 races (Grands Prix) held in various countries. Safety is a priority with strict regulations and constant advancements. Pit stops for tire changes and adjustments are common. There will be a qualifying round conducted on Saturday to decide the grid positions of drivers for the Sunday match. Each race contains 50-70 laps. Pitstops will be available to change tires or cars. Race results include driver standings and constructor standings. The driver that tops the driver's standings becomes the drivers' champion and the team that tops the constructor standings becomes the constructors' champion.
